---
title: Details
position: 1
category: 'Security'
---


The whole crypto space is just a set of keys generating other strings ( addresses, signatures). the good thing is it's a one-way generation so 1 person can let you know his address ( public key ) without exposing his private keys. this is the basic principle of crypto - cryptography, which gives cryptocurrencies names.

while a simple technology the more complex generations allows you to generate almost endless crypto addresses, thru a deterministic generation.


Fact: even the whole Internet domain registry is managed by 7-10 keys, and it is the foundation for all communication and management of the World Wide Web


While ethereum has EVM, which basically allows to write a program and make it available on blockchain to work and function, thus a complete decentralized approach where the private key is managed and bound within the smart contract itself. but other blockchains such as BTC, LTC, NANO lack these features,

So how do we implement something decentralized way to control these, so-called wallets without exposing private keys? well just like all crypto infrastructure it depends on private keys, but instead of trusting those keys with all participates the keys are generated by a non-human actor, THIRM PROTOCOL, the keys are generated from a crypto seed ( managed by all directors of THIRM foundation, managing root-level access thru this seed requires multi-sig) and for all other actors, THIRM protocol works as an extension, we extend these cryptocurrencies so all the data from BTC, LTC, NANO is published on smart contract and verified on the chain, giving a transparent overview of whole asset exchange on ethereum blockchain



## In short 

THIRM PROTOCOL basically publishes data from BTC, LTC, NANO onto ethereum contracts, and then the decentralized part takes over and handles everything autonomously. The data published is produced by THIRM Solver and its verified by all solvers in the THirm Protocol, Ensuring decentralization. 




